SHAPE     hierarchy-cut-generation
STATEMENT Imposed ordering does not terminate: it has to keep
          generating further orderings in order to exist, and does
          so until it eats itself. Runs on the imposed_ordering
          sense only — see category-weld welds/hierarchy.json for
          the other four senses, which are not this claim.

DOMAINS   total=30 read=0 unread=30
READS     hold=0 break=0 mixed=0

COVERAGE      --   (held / read)
  asserted    0.61
  derived     -- ledger not yet populated
CYCLE DEPTH   --   (0 holds survived a return)
ADVERSARIAL   --
TRUNCATED     --
RESERVATION   0.20   ceiling 0.80

UNREAD
    ethology / non-human dominance, ecology, anthropology,
    archaeology, history, linguistics, music theory, poetry /
    literary form, visual art and craft traditions, geology,
    physics, thermodynamics, microbiology / colony
    organisation, mycology / fungal networks, soil systems,
    hydrology, medicine / surgical teams, fire service,
    military organisation, corporate structure, trucking and
    freight operations, law and regulation, governance
    systems, religious institutions, theology, psychology,
    economics, kinship and council systems, mathematics /
    order theory, computer science / type and file systems

CRITERION FIXED IN ADVANCE
    A domain counts as a HOLD only if an imposed ordering in
    that domain is observed generating further orderings over
    time. A domain counts as a BREAK if an imposed ordering
    persists without generating further ones. Reclassifying a
    case as not-really-hierarchy after seeing which way it
    read is closure by construction and is not permitted; such
    a case is MIXED with the reason recorded.

OPEN
    The environment-coupled cases (dominance that tracks
    environmental conditions and reassigns when conditions
    change) are candidates for MIXED rather than BREAK,
    because they may not be instances of imposed ordering at
    all. Deciding which before reading them is required, or
    the criterion moves under the data.

OPEN
    Depth is currently unrecorded for every domain. Cycle
    depth cannot be computed until at least one domain is read
    through a return.

OPEN
    Domains reached only through live conversation carry a
    truncation bias that is not random with respect to this
    shape: frames least willing to be examined are plausibly
    the ones holding the most undocumented cuts. Mark channel
    and truncated on every live read.
